flat lamb pies

makes about 30

preheat oven to 400F

pastry dough:
4 cups plain flour
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup clarified butter
2/3 cup warm water

Sift flour and salt into a bowl, add cool clarified butter, and rub thoroughly and lightly into flour with fingertips. Sprinkle in most of the water and mix to a pliable dough, adding more water if necessary.  Kneed lightly until smooth, wrap and leave to rest for 30 minutes.

Lamb Filling:
1 tablespoon oil
1 lb ground lamb
1 large onion finely chopped
1/3 cup pine nuts
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon ground allspice salt
1/4 teaspoon fresh ground black pepper
1/4 teaspoon fresh ground white pepper
1/2 cup chopped peeled tomatoes
3 teaspoons pomegranate molasses or lemon juice

to finish:
oil for brushing

Heat oil in a frying pan, add ground lamb, and stir over medium-high heat until color changes and meat is crumbly.  Add onion and cook for 10 minutes, stirring often until onion is soft.

Add pine nuts, spices, salt to taste and pepper, fry for 1 minute longer, than add tomatoes.

Cover and cook on low heat until tomato softens - about 10 minutes.

Stir in lemon juice.  Remove from heat and cool.  Mixture should be moist, but not liquid.

Roll out pastry on a lightly floured board until 1/4 inch thick, and cut into 4 inch rounds; roll out and shape trimmings also. place rounds on a cloth, covering with another cloth.

take a round of dough and flute edge with finger tips.  Spread a tablespoon of filling onto dough, and place pies close together on oiled baking sheets.  Brush meat and crust lightly with oil.

Bake pies for 12-15 minutes.  Serve hot or warm, sprinkling with a frew fresh pomegranate seeds if available.

--

Actually, we make this with phyllo dough, not with the dough given in the recipe.  
The rest is simple:  Brown the ground lamb (or beef, in this case), and add the other ingredients, then wrap in the phyllo dough and bake.  I think we used canned tomato paste at Christmas and powder douce ( a medieval spice mixture) instead of the allspice.
